feat(code): add code tab content to modal (#1126)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/components/modal/code.mdx

tabs: ["Usage", "Style", "Code", "Accessibility"]
---

import ModalStateManager from "../../../components/ModalStateManager";

<PageDescription>

How to build a Modal using React. For code usage with other frameworks, please

> follow the links in the [live demo](/components/modal/usage#live-demo).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
follow the links in the live demo on the usage tab.
```

tabs: ["Usage", "Style", "Code", "Accessibility"]
---

import ModalStateManager from "../../../components/ModalStateManager";

<PageDescription>

How to build a Modal using React. For code usage with other frameworks, please

> follow the links in the live demo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
follow the links in the [live demo](/components/modal/usage#live-demo).
```

</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>

> <AnchorLink>Usage</AnchorLink>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<AnchorLink>Overview</AnchorLink>
```

<AnchorLink>Modal</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>ComposedModal</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Opening/closing modal</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Modal sizes</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Modal button variants</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Using modal title as message</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Focus management</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Component API</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Feedback</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

> ## Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overview
```

> This section explains usage with our React variant. For usage with other frameworks, please follow a link in component live demo above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> There are two choices for you to use Carbon modals:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two choices for you to use Carbon modals.
```

| Modal type        | Purpose                              |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `<Modal>`         | For putting simple contents in       |
| `<ComposedModal>` | For more flexibility in the contents |

## Modal

`<Modal>` allows you to use its bespoke set of contents. `children` prop maps to the modal body content.

> You can also use `modalLabel`, `modalHeading`, `secondaryButtonText` and `primaryButtonText` props to change the corresponding text:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use `modalLabel`, `modalHeading`, `secondaryButtonText` and `primaryButtonText` props to change the corresponding text.
```

            <ModalContent open={open} setOpen={setOpen} />,
            document.body
          )}
      {LauncherContent && <LauncherContent open={open} setOpen={setOpen} />}
    </>
  );
};
```

<InlineNotification kind="warning">
  <code>{`<Modal>`}</code>/<code>{`<ComposedModal>`}</code> has to be put at the
  top-level in a React tree. The easiest way to ensure that is using React
  portal as shown in above example.
</InlineNotification>

### Modal sizes

There are four responsive <a href="https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/components/modal/usage/#modal-sizes">modal sizes</a>: `xs`, `small`, default, and `large`. You can set it via `size` prop:

```javascript
<ComposedModal size="lg">
  <ModalHeader />
  <ModalBody>
    <p className="bx--modal-content__text">
      Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse
      cursus fermentum risus, sit amet fringilla nunc pellentesque quis. Duis
      quis odio ultrices, cursus lacus ac, posuere felis. Donec dignissim libero
      in augue mattis, a molestie metus vestibulum. Aliquam placerat felis
      ultrices lorem condimentum, nec ullamcorper felis porttitor.
    </p>
  </ModalBody>
</ComposedModal>
```

> Depending on the modal size of your choice and the viewport size,

Reviewer 2: I think add an H4 here to help with scanability, call it "Alignment" so it matches with the [design usage](https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/components/modal/usage#alignment) maybe?

`<Modal>`/`<ComposedModal>` adds 20% padding at the right of the modal
body content. Carbon design specifies that such 20% padding shouldn't be
applied to form elements. You can set `hasForm`
prop to `<Modal>`/`<ModalBody>` to remove the padding,
and use `bx--modal-content__regular-content` class to apply the 20%
padding to non-form contents, like below:

```javascript
<ComposedModal>
  <ModalHeader />
  <ModalBody hasForm>
    <TextInput data-modal-primary-focus labelText="Enter something" />
    <p className="bx--modal-content__text bx--modal-content__regular-content">
      Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse
      cursus fermentum risus, sit amet fringilla nunc pellentesque quis. Duis
      quis odio ultrices, cursus lacus ac, posuere felis. Donec dignissim libero
      in augue mattis, a molestie metus vestibulum. Aliquam placerat felis
      ultrices lorem condimentum, nec ullamcorper felis porttitor.
    </p>
  </ModalBody>
</ComposedModal>
```

> In case where the largest modal size cannot fit your modal body content in, Carbon

Reviewer 2: Also add an H4 called "Overflow content"

      Are you sure you want to add the "Speech to Text" service to the node-test
      app?
    </h1>
  </ModalHeader>
  <ModalFooter primaryButtonText="OK" secondaryButtonText="Cancel" />
</ComposedModal>
```

### Focus management

For both modal variants, once modal gets open, keyboard focus will be restricted inside modal. It means:

- If you hit tab key at the last keyboard-focusable element in modal, the first keyboard-focusable element in modal will get focus.
- If you hit shift-tab key at the first keyboard-focusable element in modal, the last keyboard-focusable element in modal will get focus.

We take extra step here to ensure such behavior works with floating menus,
given floating menu is placed outside of modal in DOM. If you use any
non-Carbon floating menus in your application, set `selectorsFloatingMenus={['.bx--overflow-menu-options', '.bx--tooltip', '.flatpickr-calendar', '.your-floating-menu-foo', '.your-floating-menu-bar']}` to `<Modal>`/`<ComposedModal>`.

Also for both modal variants, you can set the DOM element that gets focus when the modal gets open, by either of the following ways:

#### Setting `data-modal-primary-focus` attribute to the target element

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a line break `<br/>` here to help with spacing.

```javascript
<ComposedModal>
  <ModalBody hasForm>
    <TextInput data-modal-primary-focus labelText="Enter something" />
  </ModalBody>
</ComposedModal>
```

#### Specifying a query selector to the target element

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a line break `<br/>` here to help with spacing.

          </p>
          <p>
            Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean id accumsan augue. Phasellus consequat augue vitae tellus tincidunt posuere. Curabitur justo urna, consectetur vel elit iaculis, ultrices condimentum risus. Nulla facilisi. Etiam venenatis molestie tellus. Quisque consectetur non risus eu rutrum. 
          </p>
          <p>
            Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean id accumsan augue. Phasellus consequat augue vitae tellus tincidunt posuere. Curabitur justo urna, consectetur vel elit iaculis, ultrices condimentum risus. Nulla facilisi. Etiam venenatis molestie tellus. Quisque consectetur non risus eu rutrum. 
          </p>
          <p>
            Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean id accumsan augue. Phasellus consequat augue vitae tellus tincidunt posuere. Curabitur justo urna, consectetur vel elit iaculis, ultrices condimentum risus. Nulla facilisi. Etiam venenatis molestie tellus. Quisque consectetur non risus eu rutrum. 
          </p>
        </>
      </Modal>
    )}
  </ModalStateManager>
</>
    `}
  </ComponentVariant>
</ComponentDemo>

## ComposedModal

> `<ComposedModal>` provides you with more flexibility in the contents. You can provide the contents via `<ModalHeader>`, `<ModalBody>` and `<ModalFooter>` with your contents in them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<ComposedModal>` provides you with more flexibility in the contents. You can provide the contents via `<ModalHeader>`, `<ModalBody>` and `<ModalFooter>` with your contents in them.
```

  return (
    <>
      {typeof document === "undefined"
        ? null
        : ReactDOM.createPortal(
            <ComposedModal open={open} onClose={() => setOpen(false)}>
              ...
            </ComposedModal>,
            document.body
          )}
      <Button kind="primary" onClick={() => setOpen(true)}>
        Open modal
      </Button>
    </>
  );
}
```

You can create an abstract version of such state manager, like:

```javascript
const ModalStateManager = ({
  renderLauncher: LauncherContent,
  children: ModalContent,
}) => {
  const [open, setOpen] = useState(false);
  return (
    <>
      {!ModalContent || typeof document === "undefined"
        ? null
        : ReactDOM.createPortal(
            <ModalContent open={open} setOpen={setOpen} />,
            document.body
          )}
      {LauncherContent && <LauncherContent open={open} setOpen={setOpen} />}
    </>
  );
};
```

<InlineNotification kind="warning">
  <code>{`<Modal>`}</code>/<code>{`<ComposedModal>`}</code> has to be put at the
  top-level in a React tree. The easiest way to ensure that is using React
  portal as shown in above example.
</InlineNotification>

## Modal sizes

> There are four responsive <a href="https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/components/modal/usage/#modal-sizes">modal sizes</a>: `xs`, `small`, default, and `large`. You can set it via `size` prop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are four responsive <a href="https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/components/modal/usage/#modal-sizes">modal sizes</a>: `xs`, `small`, default, and `large`. You can set it via `size` prop.
```

```javascript
<ComposedModal size="lg">
  <ModalHeader />
  <ModalBody>
    <p className="bx--modal-content__text">
      Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse
      cursus fermentum risus, sit amet fringilla nunc pellentesque quis. Duis
      quis odio ultrices, cursus lacus ac, posuere felis. Donec dignissim libero
      in augue mattis, a molestie metus vestibulum. Aliquam placerat felis
      ultrices lorem condimentum, nec ullamcorper felis porttitor.
    </p>
  </ModalBody>
</ComposedModal>
```

#### Alignment

Depending on the modal size of your choice and the viewport size,
`<Modal>`/`<ComposedModal>` adds 20% padding at the right of the modal
body content. Carbon design specifies that such 20% padding shouldn't be
applied to form elements. You can set `hasForm`
prop to `<Modal>`/`<ModalBody>` to remove the padding,
and use `bx--modal-content__regular-content` class to apply the 20%

> padding to non-form contents, like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
padding to non-form contents, like below.
```

```javascript
<ComposedModal>
  <ModalHeader />
  <ModalBody hasForm>
    <TextInput data-modal-primary-focus labelText="Enter something" />
    <p className="bx--modal-content__text bx--modal-content__regular-content">
      Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse
      cursus fermentum risus, sit amet fringilla nunc pellentesque quis. Duis
      quis odio ultrices, cursus lacus ac, posuere felis. Donec dignissim libero
      in augue mattis, a molestie metus vestibulum. Aliquam placerat felis
      ultrices lorem condimentum, nec ullamcorper felis porttitor.
    </p>
  </ModalBody>
</ComposedModal>
```

#### Overflow content

In case where the largest modal size cannot fit your modal body content in, Carbon
design specifies to have a "visual fade" look at the end of the modal body area
to indicate there is additional content out of view. You can set
`hasScrollingContent` prop to `<Modal>`/`<ModalBody>`

> to do that, like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to do that, like below.
```

```javascript
<ComposedModal size="large">
  <ModalHeader />
  <ModalBody hasScrollingContent>
    <p className=".bx--modal-content__text">Some very large contents...</p>
  </ModalBody>
</ComposedModal>
```

## Modal button variants

> With `<Modal>`, you have limited control over the set of buttons. Supported patterns are the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `<Modal>`, you have limited control over the set of buttons. The following table shows the supported patterns. 
```

| Button group variant                                                                                 | Usage                                     |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| No button ([passive modal](https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/components/modal/usage#passive-modal)) | Use `passiveModal` prop in `<Modal>`      |
| One button                                                                                           | Use `<ComposedModal>`                     |
| Two buttons                                                                                          | Use `<Modal>` without `passiveModal` prop |
| Two buttons with danger button                                                                       | Use `danger` prop in `<Modal>`            |

```javascript
<Modal danger>
  <ModalHeader />
  <p className="bx--modal-content__text">The modal body content</p>
</Modal>
```

> With `<ComposedModal>`, you can control the buttons with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `<ComposedModal>`, you can control the buttons with the following code.
```

| Three buttons                                                                                        | Put three buttons as children of `<ModalFooter>`, instead of using `primaryButtonText` or `secondaryButtonText`. Using this option requires style adjustment defined in application-level CSS for `<ModalFooter>`, e.g. `.bx--modal-footer { padding: 25%; }`. |
| Two buttons with danger button                                                                       | Set `danger` prop in `<ModalFooter>` (like below)                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

```javascript
<ComposedModal>
  ...
  <ModalFooter danger primaryButtonText="OK" secondaryButtonText="Cancel" />
</ComposedModal>
```

<InlineNotification kind="warning">
  As the instruction for the three buttons implies, <code>{`<ModalFooter>`}</code>
  is flexible on the buttons as you render <code>{`<Button>`}</code> s by yourself,

>   like below. In this case, application code needs to care of running action upon

Author: ```suggestion
  like below. In this case, application code needs to care of running action upon
  click on the button.
```

  those buttons, e.g. closing the modal:
</InlineNotification>

```javascript
<ComposedModal>
  ...
  <ModalFooter>
    <Button
      kind="secondary"
      onClick={() => { (Run some action...) setOpen(false); }}>
      Another button
    </Buttton>
    <Button
      kind="secondary"
      onClick={() => { (Run some action...) setOpen(false); }}>
      Secondary button
    </Buttton>
    <Button
      kind="primary"
      onClick={() => { (Run some action...) setOpen(false); }}>
      Priamry button
    </Buttton>
  </ModalFooter>
</ComposedModal>
```

## Using modal title as message

For short, direct messages the title can include the whole message to add visual clarity to an otherwise repetitive title and body message.

> To use this pattern with `<Modal>`, you can omit `children` prop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this pattern with `<Modal>`, you can omit `children` prop.
```

```javascript
const modalHeadding =
  'Are you sure you want to add the "Speech to Text" service ' +
  'to the node-test app?';
...
<Modal
  modalHeading={modalHeading}
  secondaryButtonText="Cancel"
  primaryButtonText="Add"
/>
```

> To use this pattern with `<ComposedModal>`, you can omit `<ModalBody>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this pattern with `<ComposedModal>`, you can omit `<ModalBody>`.
```

```javascript
<ComposedModal>
  <ModalHeader label="Modla label">
    <h1>
      Are you sure you want to add the "Speech to Text" service to the node-test
      app?
    </h1>
  </ModalHeader>
  <ModalFooter primaryButtonText="OK" secondaryButtonText="Cancel" />
</ComposedModal>
```

## Focus management

For both modal variants, once modal gets open, keyboard focus will be restricted inside modal. It means:

- If you hit tab key at the last keyboard-focusable element in modal, the first keyboard-focusable element in modal will get focus.

> - If you hit shift-tab key at the first keyboard-focusable element in modal, the last keyboard-focusable element in modal will get focus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you press `Shift-Tab` at the first keyboard-focusable element in the modal, the last keyboard-focusable element in the modal will get focus.
```

| `selectorsFloatingMenus` | `string[]`                         | –                                             | –                            | Specify CSS selectors that match DOM elements working as floating menus. Focusing on those elements won't trigger "focus-wrap" behavior                      |
| `shouldSubmitOnEnter`    | `boolean`                          | –                                             | –                            | Specify if Enter key should be used as "submit" action                                                                                                       |
| `size`                   | `'xs'` &#124; `'md'` &#124; `'lg'` | –                                             | –                            | Specify the size variant                                                                                                                                     |

> Please see Show Info button at [our storybook](https://react.carbondesignsystem.com/?path=/story/modal--default), or follow a link in component live demo above for other frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the `Show Info` button in [our storybook](https://react.carbondesignsystem.com/?path=/story/modal--default), or follow the links in the component [live demo](/components/modal/usage#live-demo) for other frameworks.
```
